The next new language feature
that we'll talk about is,
this one's easy to understand and
a welcome improvement.
That is class property
inference from constructors.
And what this means is you no longer have
to do something that used to be mandatory.
And that something,
that you used to have to do,
was add types to every class field, right?
So this, what you see here,
is possible today.
But previously you would have had to say,
red is a number,
green is a number, blue is a number.
And it sort of added to the verbosity of
any kind of class that you would set up,
right?
You need types for the arguments, you need
the assignments inside your constructor.
You needed the class fields
with their respective types.
So what's happening now is, based on
what happens in your constructor logic,
the types for
those fields will be inferred.
So if you upgrade to a sufficiently
advanced TypeScript version,
you can start going
through your code base.
And, where appropriate,
delete some of those class field types.
That'll be figured out for
you automatically.
Now, what I advise doing here is,
a simple situation like this,
absolutely, delete those class fields.
I mean, delete the explicit type
annotations for the class fields.
However, if you have something here
like a complicated ternary operator
based initialization, I might still
leave the class field type here.
For the same reason that I like to keep
explicit return types on my functions.
It's kind of like you state
that you have intent for
this field to end up
as a particular thing.
And the compiler will help ensure that
you follow through on your intent, right?
So if you've ever written a function,
and you start adding a couple little
branches in there, a couple conditionals,
then there's one way you can go through
this function where you return null.
But you stated you would end up
with a number, no matter what.
It's nice to have TypeScript right
in that local area bust you on that.
So for simple assignments, I don't think
you need an explicit type annotation.
But for anything that gets a little hard
to immediately look at and understand,
leave it there.
And the end result is, the type error will
happen in this location of your code.
As opposed to, somebody is using
type green, color.green, and
over there, way, far away,
that's where the type error is happening.
That's the effect you get, right,
through that explicit type.
You want the error to happen
where the fix needs to be, yes?
>> If you have conflicting types in your
constructor versus your declaration?
>> Yep, so in case I did this too fast,
I just hit this Try button.
You can do this on almost all of
the code examples on this website,
where you can pop out into
the TypeScript playground.
So I can answer your question by doing
exactly what you asked me to do.
So here, let's say that this is a string.
And we'll get a nice little type
error here saying that, hey,
c is a tuple of three numbers, and
something weird is happening here.
So that, I feel like this is a good error,
it's close to the location of
where we need to apply a fix.
The strange situation that I was talking
about earlier, let's say we did this.
Sorry, let me be a little more
sane in terms of how I write that.
And we did something like this.
So here, there's something
more complicated happening.
Where the type of green might
not end up being a number,
it could be a tuple of three numbers.
And let's say that we left this out, and
we said, I just want inference to handle
all of this for me,
we get no error messages here.
The only place you'd get an error message,
Is something like this.
And you wouldn't even get
an error message here,
you'd have to have something like number.
And now, hey, something's a little
off here, green could be a number,
but it could also be this other thing.
And I don't like it when my errors happen
far away from the location of where
the fix needs to happen.
So this is the basis for my advice.
If there's anything more complicated
than just a simple assignment,
especially if you have some sort
of control flow happening, right?
Some two different branches
that you could take.
Just go ahead and leave this on.
Leave that there, and now you can see
the error will go away down here.
Because our intent is that green is
a number, we're stating that upfront.
But this is where the incongruity happens,
and that's where you need to make the fix.
Errors where the fix needs to happen,
that's the best thing, right?
That's where, if you use VS code,
you'll have that nice list of problems,
you'll be able to click on that.
That's where you need to go and
do something, the world is better.
So that's all there is here,
it's very simple.
I think it's a straight up win in terms of
having to write a little bit less code.